feat(mcp): add Secure Parameters support for mcp v2026-07 (#3394)
googleapis/genai-toolbox: docs/en/documentation/configuration/tools/_index.md

    valueType: integer # This enforces the value type for all entries.
```

### Secure Parameters

> Secure parameters are designed to handle sensitive information (such as API keys, passwords, and credentials) that should not be transmitted in plain text through standard client-server arguments or logs.

Reviewer: Please update to call out these are parameters that agents should not control along with potentially not wanting to transmit in plain text. We should use example like customer_id versus credentials that should be set in the source.

> Secure parameters require negotiation of the draft protocol version (`DRAFT-2026-v1`) and the client capability `toolbox/secure-params` to be set to `true`. 

Reviewer: We need to be more clear on how users set this. Ultimately we may just need to call out the version for both the server and SDKs for this support

> Secure parameters require negotiation of the draft protocol version (`DRAFT-2026-v1`) and the client capability `toolbox/secure-params` to be set to `true`. 

Reviewer: I thought we agreed on com.google.cloud/secure-params

parameters:
  - name: sessionToken
    type: string
    description: Sensitive session token
    secure: true
```

#### Protocol Constraints

When a parameter is marked as `secure: true`, the following strict rules are enforced at the transport level:

1. **Capability Requirement**: If a tool has one or more secure parameters, the client **must** negotiate the `"DRAFT-2026-v1"` protocol version during initialization and declare support for `toolbox/secure-params` in its capabilities. Otherwise, invoking the tool will return a `jsonrpc.INVALID_PARAMS` error.
2. **Mutual Exclusion (Configuration)**: A parameter **cannot** have both `secure: true` and `authServices` specified. An error will be thrown during configuration loading.
3. **Mutual Exclusion (Arguments)**:
   - Parameters marked as `secure` **must** be passed in the request's `secureArguments` map, and **must not** be passed in the standard `arguments` map.
   - Parameters **not** marked as `secure` **must** be passed in the standard `arguments` map, and **must not** be passed in the `secureArguments` map.
   - Any violation of these rules will result in a `jsonrpc.INVALID_PARAMS` error and execution will be blocked.

> 

Reviewer: what is actionable here for the customer? We should also note what happens if the extension is not supported.

    valueType: integer # This enforces the value type for all entries.
```

### Secure Parameters

> Secure parameters are designed for sensitive runtime context (such as an end-user `customer_id`, tenant identifier, or session token) that **AI agents (LLMs) should not control or see** and that should not be transmitted in plain text through prompt completion requests, model context windows, or standard server logs.

Reviewer 2: nit: Is this wording right?

```suggestion
Secure parameters are for values that must not be agent-controlled. They let the calling application supply a parameter's value out-of-band, so the model can neither see it in context nor set or override it — for example, an end user's `customer_id`.
```

> **Note:** Secure parameters should be used for client-supplied runtime values (such as `customer_id` or end-user context). Database credentials (such as service account passwords or API keys) should be configured directly in the Data Source configuration rather than passed as per-request tool parameters.

To configure a parameter as secure, set the `secure` field to `true` in your tool's parameter definition:

```yaml
kind: tool
name: search_secure_data
type: postgres-sql
source: my-pg-instance
statement: |
  SELECT * FROM sessions WHERE customer_id = $1
parameters:
  - name: customer_id
    type: string
    description: Sensitive customer identifier supplied out-of-band by the calling application
    secure: true
```

#### Protocol Constraints & Extension Negotiation

> Enabling secure parameters requires both the **MCP Toolbox Server** (running protocol version `DRAFT-2026-v1`) and a compatible **client SDK** that supports the `com.google.cloud/secure-params` extension.

Reviewer 2: nit: suggest adding a link to the Toolbox SDKs for "client SDK" 
```suggestion
Enabling secure parameters requires:
- **MCP Toolbox Server** (running protocol version `DRAFT-2026-v1`)
- compatible **client SDK** that supports the `com.google.cloud/secure-params` extension.
```

> Clients declare support by enabling `com.google.cloud/secure-params: true` in their client capabilities (`io.modelcontextprotocol/clientCapabilities.experimental`) or per-request metadata (`_meta`).

Reviewer 2: Client Capabilities is in _meta in the 07-28-2026 version of the spec right? Why is this OR?

When a parameter is marked as `secure: true`, the following strict rules are enforced:

1. **Capability Requirement**: If a tool has one or more secure parameters, the client **must** negotiate protocol version `"DRAFT-2026-v1"` and declare support for the `com.google.cloud/secure-params` capability.
2. **Mutual Exclusion (Configuration)**: A parameter **cannot** have both `secure: true` and `authServices` specified. An error will be thrown during configuration loading.
3. **Mutual Exclusion (Arguments)**:
   - Parameters marked as `secure: true` **must** be passed in the request's `secureArguments` map, and **must not** be passed in the standard `arguments` map.
   - Parameters marked as `secure: false` **must** be passed in the standard `arguments` map, and **must not** be passed in the `secureArguments` map.

>    - Because `arguments` and `secureArguments` are strictly disjoint, agent-generated arguments cannot override or collide with host-provided secure arguments. Any violation of these rules returns a `jsonrpc.INVALID_PARAMS` error and blocks execution.

Reviewer 2: This seems like implementation details that a user won't ever see right? 

Can we say something like:

When a parameter is marked as `secure: true`, it will not be presented to the agent as a configurable parameter. Instead, it will rely on the application to set the parameter. If an application fails to set the parameter before the tool is called, it'll return `<some error>`.

Here is how you set a Secure parameter with the Toolbox Python SDK:
`<code snippet>`

> #### Client Compatibility & Unsupported Extension Behavior

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Unsupported Extension Behavior
```

    valueType: integer # This enforces the value type for all entries.
```

### Secure Parameters

Secure parameters are designed for sensitive runtime context (such as an end-user `customer_id`, tenant identifier, or session token) that **AI agents (LLMs) should not control or see** and that should not be transmitted in plain text through prompt completion requests, model context windows, or standard server logs.

> **Note:** Secure parameters should be used for client-supplied runtime values (such as `customer_id` or end-user context). Database credentials (such as service account passwords or API keys) should be configured directly in the Data Source configuration rather than passed as per-request tool parameters.

To configure a parameter as secure, set the `secure` field to `true` in your tool's parameter definition:

```yaml
kind: tool
name: search_secure_data
type: postgres-sql
source: my-pg-instance
statement: |
  SELECT * FROM sessions WHERE customer_id = $1
parameters:
  - name: customer_id
    type: string
    description: Sensitive customer identifier supplied out-of-band by the calling application
    secure: true
```

> When a parameter is marked as `secure: true`, it will not be presented to the agent as a configurable parameter. Instead, it relies on the application to set the parameter. If an application fails to set the parameter before the tool is called, execution is blocked and returns an `invalid_params` error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a parameter is marked as `secure: true`, it will not be presented to the agent as a configurable parameter. Instead, it relies on the application to set the parameter. If an application fails to set the parameter before the tool is called, execution returns a tool error indicating that the required parameter was not provided.
```

> **Note:** A parameter cannot have both `secure: true` and `authServices` specified.

Here is how you set a secure parameter with the Toolbox Python SDK:

```python
# Pass secure_args when loading or calling a tool via the Python SDK
auth_tool = await toolbox.load_tool(
    "search_secure_data",

>     secure_args={"customer_id": "cust_12345"}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Pass secure_params when loading or calling a tool via the Python SDK
auth_tool = await toolbox.load_tool(
    "search_secure_data",
    secure_params={"customer_id": "cust_12345"}
```
